# TCR:pMHC structures

The following files make up the structural dataset for the "Unravelling T Cell Recognition: Insights from Immunology and AI" hackathon.

## Summary

* `structures_summary.html` visualises properties of the structures. This may serve as inspiration to understand what features are important in answering the proposed questions.
* `structures_summary.csv` contains additional metadata such as sequence information and docking angles for each of the structures.

## PDB Structures

Each structure follows this naming convention `<pdb-id>_<original-chains>.pdb`. Each file contains one TCR:pMHC complex isolated from its original PDB file and cropped to the TCR variable domain and pMHC antigen binding domain. The chain names have been standardised to the following:

| Chain ID | Chain Type                                                     |
| :------: | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
|    A     | First MHC chain (for class I this is the entire molecule)      |
|    B     | Second MHC chain (for class I this is the Beta2-microglobulin) |
|    C     | antigen/peptide chain                                          |
|    D     | TCR alpha chain                                                |
|    E     | TCR beta chain                                                 |

Additionally, the numbering of the residues in the structures have been standardised to the [IMGT convention](https://www.imgt.org/IMGTScientificChart/#B).

## Interactions

Finally, for each complex an additional interaction profile is provided with the following naming scheme: `<pdb-id>_<chains>_interactions.csv`. These files have been generated by [PLIP](https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/49/W1/W530/6266421) and contain information about the residues binding the peptide from both the TCR and MHC.

## Hackathon Questions

Using this data, we have set out the following questions to be answered by hackathon participants:

1. Using structural information, can we discriminate between TCRs that bind to pMHC class Is versus pMHC class IIs?

2. Can we predict which residues will interact between the TCR and peptide? `Note:` careful processing of the data is required here so that absolute positions are not given to the method and it can simply calculate things that are less than 5 Å apart.

3. Design a new method for clustering TCRs based on structural information.